README.md, before:

# kenway-rogers-site
Website for Kenway Rogers

This repository contains a simple static site for Kenway Rogers — Treasure Hunter.

Running locally:

1. Serve the folder from a static web server (Python 3):

```bash
python3 -m http.server 8000
# then open http://localhost:8000/index.html
```

Files added/updated:
- `index.html` — cinematic splash, hero, and case study cards
- `style.css`, `script.js` — updated styling and behaviors
- `case1.html`, `case2.html`, `case3.html` — example case studies

Design: Rustic, parchment-like D&D flavor with tools of the trade imagery, no character portraits.

Netlify deployment
------------------
This site is ready to be deployed directly on Netlify from this repository. No build step is required — Netlify will serve the files from the root of the repository.

Steps to deploy on Netlify:
1. Create an account at https://app.netlify.com/ (if you don't already have one).
2. Click "New site from Git" and connect your Git provider.
3. Select the `kenway-rogers-site` repository and the `main` branch.
4. Leave the build command blank and set the publish directory to `.` (root).
5. Click "Deploy site".

Notes
- Netlify's default behavior will auto-detect many static site generators; since this is a static site, there are no build steps.
- `netlify.toml` includes caching and security headers and points Netlify at the repo root as the publish directory.
- Keep `index.html` at the root — Netlify will serve it as the site's homepage.

Contact form & email delivery
--------------------------------
This project includes a contact modal which submits form data to Netlify Forms directly. Steps to enable email notifications:

1. Deploy the site to Netlify from this repository.
2. In your Netlify dashboard, go to the website settings → Forms.
3. Locate the `contact` form (it will show up as soon as a submission is received or if you trigger a test submit).
4. Add a notification rule in the Netlify UI to notify an email address (e.g., `kenwayrogers@gmail.com`) on new submissions, or connect to Zapier/SendGrid for other email delivery flows.

Alternatively (direct email delivery)
----------------------------------
If you'd like form submissions to be sent as emails immediately (instead of relying on Netlify's UI notifications), you can use the serverless function included in `netlify/functions/send-contact.js` which forwards messages to a transactional email provider (SendGrid). To use it:

1. Register for a SendGrid account and create an API key.
2. In Netlify's UI, go to Site Settings → Build & deploy → Environment → Environment variables and add:
	- `SENDGRID_API_KEY` = your SendGrid API key
	- `CONTACT_RECIPIENT_EMAIL` = `kenwayrogers@gmail.com` (the target recipient)
	- (Optional) `FROM_EMAIL` = the verified sender email you want to use (e.g., `noreply@yourdomain.com`)
3. Deploy the site (Netlify will deploy functions automatically).
4. The contact modal will use the function endpoint `/.netlify/functions/send-contact` to forward messages to SendGrid (this is the AJAX endpoint the site uses).

Notes:
- SendGrid requires a verified sender for `FROM_EMAIL` unless you have domain authentication.
- If you prefer another provider (Mailjet, Mailgun), I can adapt the function to that API.
- When testing locally, the function will not run; deploy to Netlify and test there.
Note: The form sends submissions using AJAX so the user experience stays in the modal and you can control success/failure messages.

Commit message:

SendGrid function: add reply_to, HTML content and validation; update README with best-practices and local testing

README.md, after:

# kenway-rogers-site
Website for Kenway Rogers

This repository contains a simple static site for Kenway Rogers — Treasure Hunter.

Running locally:

1. Serve the folder from a static web server (Python 3):

```bash
python3 -m http.server 8000
# then open http://localhost:8000/index.html
```

Files added/updated:
- `index.html` — cinematic splash, hero, and case study cards
- `style.css`, `script.js` — updated styling and behaviors
- `case1.html`, `case2.html`, `case3.html` — example case studies

Design: Rustic, parchment-like D&D flavor with tools of the trade imagery, no character portraits.

Netlify deployment
------------------
This site is ready to be deployed directly on Netlify from this repository. No build step is required — Netlify will serve the files from the root of the repository.

Steps to deploy on Netlify:
1. Create an account at https://app.netlify.com/ (if you don't already have one).
2. Click "New site from Git" and connect your Git provider.
3. Select the `kenway-rogers-site` repository and the `main` branch.
4. Leave the build command blank and set the publish directory to `.` (root).
5. Click "Deploy site".

Notes
- Netlify's default behavior will auto-detect many static site generators; since this is a static site, there are no build steps.
- `netlify.toml` includes caching and security headers and points Netlify at the repo root as the publish directory.
- Keep `index.html` at the root — Netlify will serve it as the site's homepage.

Contact form & email delivery
--------------------------------
This project includes a contact modal which submits form data to Netlify Forms directly. Steps to enable email notifications:

1. Deploy the site to Netlify from this repository.
2. In your Netlify dashboard, go to the website settings → Forms.
3. Locate the `contact` form (it will show up as soon as a submission is received or if you trigger a test submit).
4. Add a notification rule in the Netlify UI to notify an email address (e.g., `kenwayrogers@gmail.com`) on new submissions, or connect to Zapier/SendGrid for other email delivery flows.

Alternatively (direct email delivery)
----------------------------------
If you'd like form submissions to be sent as emails immediately (instead of relying on Netlify's UI notifications), you can use the serverless function included in `netlify/functions/send-contact.js` which forwards messages to a transactional email provider (SendGrid). To use it:

1. Register for a SendGrid account and create an API key.
2. In Netlify's UI, go to Site Settings → Build & deploy → Environment → Environment variables and add:
	- `SENDGRID_API_KEY` = your SendGrid API key
	- `CONTACT_RECIPIENT_EMAIL` = `kenwayrogers@gmail.com` (the target recipient)
	- (Optional but recommended) `FROM_EMAIL` = the verified sender email you want to use (e.g., `noreply@yourdomain.com`)
3. Deploy the site (Netlify will deploy functions automatically).
4. The contact modal will use the function endpoint `/.netlify/functions/send-contact` to forward messages to SendGrid (this is the AJAX endpoint the site uses).

Notes:
- SendGrid requires a verified sender for `FROM_EMAIL` unless you have domain authentication.
- Best practices and reply-to behavior:
	- It's best practice to set `FROM_EMAIL` to a sender email address you control (e.g., `hello@yourdomain.com`). SendGrid requires that `FROM_EMAIL` be a verified sender or domain, otherwise messages may be rejected.
	- The contact form uses the visitor's submitted email as the `reply_to` address, so replies to the received message go directly to the visitor's email while the message itself is delivered from `FROM_EMAIL`.
- If you prefer another provider (Mailjet, Mailgun), I can adapt the function to that API.
- When testing locally, the function will not run; deploy to Netlify and test there.
Local function testing
----------------------
To test serverless functions locally, install Netlify CLI:

```bash
npm install -g netlify-cli

# then run from the repo root
netlify dev
```

This runs a local server with Netlify Functions available at `/.netlify/functions/*`, where you can trigger `send-contact`. Use the contact form in the site to test the full flow.
Note: The form sends submissions using AJAX so the user experience stays in the modal and you can control success/failure messages.
